# Statement No.1751, Statement

# Problem Statement Title:-

0. Dashboard for Swachhta and LiFE. Develop a dashboard aimed at maintaining cleanliness and LiFE practices, integrating AI-powered image processing technology for effective monitoring of Swachhta and green practices adopted in post offices. The dashboard needs to be accessible from the Divisional Office offering surveillance capabilities and triggering alerts for deviation from prescribed Swachhta and Green Growth standards to prompt on ground intervention to guide the post office concerned to make necessary changes to conform to set expectations. 


1. Background: The Department of Posts has implemented Swachhta Abhiyaan in its entire network with intense and focused efforts in the last 10 years. In 2023-24 it has introduced more systematic efforts towards institutionalization of Swachhta Protocols in its entire network and also introduced Lifestyle for Environment Practices through an introductory course on the iGOT portal of GOI and Mission Karmayogi portal of the Department. In the year 2024, the Department has prescribed a Swachhta Action Plan (SAP) 2024 template and provided a toolkit to the field units to adopt fit to local context activities under Swachhta Abhiyaan from the menu of activities prescribed for the entire network to choose from. Through the SAP 2024, the Department aims to institutionalize Swachhta protocols across the network with local ownership and adherence to basic standards. To ensure the outcome the solution to the Problem Statement may be useful for the Department to meet its objectives across the network. In addition to the Swachhta Action Plan and related behaviours and practices, the Department is also committed to adopt Lifestyle for Environment Practices for each of its administrative and operative units. Monitoring system for LiFE with modern and emerging technologies is also welcome to make the Swachhta focused solution above even more useful and powerful for the Department. Description: This is a problem statement seeking monitoring and data analytics solution using modern and emerging Industry 4.0 technologies. While the use of AI and pictorial data based automated monitoring is at the heart of the problem, the team working on this problem can choose any combination of available technologies and tools to devise a simple to use and adopt solution to enable its mass adoption across the post office network. Expected Solution: The expected solution is pictorial data and analytics based on AI. Cameras to capture pictorial data are available in various locations in the DoP and actual or dummy data for the solution will be provided. The geolocation and timestamp on the pictorial data is also to be taken as a fundamental data point to capture in the spirit of the outcome expected towards improved internal governance of Swachhta and green, LiFE, practices being adopted by the Department. The solution developed here could have a wide application based on the scalability that is built in by the teams working on this problem statement.



# Statement No.1622, Statement

# Problem Statement Title:- Online issuance of Caste and other certificates by Revenue Department need real-time monitoring

0. The issuance of Caste and other certificates by Revenue Department need real-time monitoring to evaluate the resource allocation and demand for such certificates. The allocation of resources at present is done without any analysis leading to huge backlogs in some Sub-divison where the application load is very high. Any effective monitoring at District and Central level with detailed evaluation shall enable providing better allocation of resources for issuanc of such certificates



# Statement No.1624, Statement

# Problem Statement Title:- To develop an Artificial Intelligence (AI) based model for electricity demand projection including peak demand projection for Delhi Power system

0. Background: The load profile of power requirement in NCT of Delhi is highly peculiar. We are witnessing huge load variations during the winter and summer months and also during day and night during the same 24-hour window. This causes imbalance in matching the requisite power purchase with the electricity demand. Description: The peak load in Delhi touched 8300 MW this summer while the minimum load during winters goes as low as 2000 MW. The peak during the summer months also occurs twice i.e. first during the day time at about 15:30 hrs and second time in night hours after 23:00 hrs. Further, the solar generation comes during the day time and wanes by the evening hours thereby lending a Duck-curve effect. Solar plants have been allowed +/- 15% variation by CERC. Further, there is uneven load growth in the city, the upcoming areas are witnessing huge load growth while the developed areas are having the lower organic load growth. In addition to that the load curve in Delhi is highly peaky in nature due to the fact that most of the load is domestic and commercial load while industrial load is minimal. Here it may be taken note that while in other States, industrial load which is 24 x 7 in nature lends stability to the overall load curve of the State. Further, in Delhi agricultural load is minimal. In bigger States, having considerable agricultural load, the supply on agricultural feeders is normally given when ample power is available at cheaper rates, especially during early morning hours/ night hours, which in -turn provides stability to the State' Transmission and Distribution network and also balances power purchase stipulation. Most of the Long Term power is available RTC (Round the Clock) and Slot-wise power is more expensive. Expected Solution: An Artificial Intelligence based model be developed with suitable compensation methodology to factor the weather effects (like temperature humidity, and wind speed, rains/showers), public holidays/ weekly holidays, natural load growth, and real estate development.




# Statement No.1627, Statement

# Problem Statement Title:- Drug Inventory and supply chain Tracking system

0. With the aim to provide "Right Quantity of "Right Product" on "Right Place" on "Right Time" in "Right Condition" at "Right Cost" for "Right People" and also to streamline the distribution of drugs to institutions and ensure availability of drugs at all times, a new, innovative system named Drug Inventory and supply chain Tracking system is required: To improve efficiency and effectiveness of procurement and distribution systems through robust quality controls To provide dashboard based online monitoring of all activities at each level Tracking of vendor activities like preparation of Supply Order, Shipment etc. Monitoring of Drug consumption pattern at the Hospitals/Medical Institutions Level






